## Problem description:
The puzzle has 9 tiles, each tile has a number assigned to it, starting from 1-8. However, the 9th tile has 0 assigned to it indicating a blank tile. Given the start state and the end state the blank tile can be moved in 4 directions (up, down, left, right) one tile at a time and can be used to swap with another tile. This project uses A* algorithm which is a path finding algorithm, used to find a path with least cost to the end state.

## A star Algorithm:
A* (pronounced as "A star") is a computer algorithm that is widely used in pathfinding and graph traversal, the process of plotting an efficiently directed path between multiple points, called "nodes". It enjoys widespread use due to its performance and accuracy.
A* achieves better performance by using heuristics to guide its search. A* is an informed search algorithm, or a best-first search, meaning that it solves problems by searching among all possible paths to the solution (goal) for the one that incurs the smallest cost (least distance travelled, shortest time, etc.), and among these paths it first considers the ones that appear to lead most quickly to the solution. It is formulated in terms of weighted graphs: starting from a specific node of a graph, it constructs a tree of paths starting from that node, expanding paths one step at a time, until one of its paths ends at the predetermined goal node.

At each iteration of its main loop, A* needs to determine which of its partial paths to expand into one or more longer paths. It does so based on an estimate of the cost (total weight) still to go to the goal node. Specifically, A* selects the path that minimizes
f(n)=g(n)+h(n)
where n is the last node on the path, g(n) is the cost of the path from the start node to n, and h(n) is a heuristic that estimates the cost of the cheapest path from n to the goal. The heuristic is problem-specific. For the algorithm to find the actual shortest path, the heuristic function must be admissible, meaning that it never overestimates the actual cost to get to the nearest goal node.
In this project, I have used Manhattan distance to be the heuristic function. Based on the f(n) value, the algorithm finds the best possible path to the end state. The advantage of using A* is that, it has the capability to backtrack to the parent of the generated node. While, maintaining the cost of the path as well.
